&temp=Opium War that happened in 1840 brought Chinese people a will of seeking power, which has undoubtedly been the primary national, will after China was invaded by the imperialist powers with advanced and dad-burned warships and cannon. While the explorative activity resulted from the will of seeking power seemed to bear ripe fruit over the past three decades. It gives unnecessary details that the news of victory can be seen anywhere, for example, internationally, “China Threat" has witnessed in the reverse way that China is becoming more and more powerful; RMB is gradually strong and appreciated compared with other foreign currencies; Chinese commodities can be seen anywhere in European and American market; domestically, the coming Beijing 2008 Olympic Games just like a bright flag, under which, China’s economy has burst up, employment has increased other than decreased, voice of jubilation overflows all over the country.
In this case, the frenetic degree and degree of expansion of the national cultural psychology have obviously increased which inspire abundant resort and mood that is the characteristics of the special society and cultural context currently. It needn’t to mention the meaning for researching the resort and mood if we can hold it exquisitely, review it carefully and research it deeply.
Ren Jun, born and educated in Xi’an where is the ancient capital with heavy cultural atmosphere of Han and Tang dynasty up to the present, has been influenced and edified deeply by the traditional culture. Since the early 1990s, he has grown up from an innocent child who knew little about society and world to a well-known sculpture artist who is the first group to touch the business market among the artists. Over the past years, he has made extensive conservation with people from all walks of life (from senior officials above to street merchant below) in order to well know their psychological condition. The experience let him know more about the complex cultural condition of the contemporary society, while by visiting China and other countries, his cultural view shouldn’t be narrow.
With deep understanding about the traditional culture, international culture and indigenous culture, he chooses to concern about the cultural problem with native experience. The sincere concern for the native experience and cultural problem is real connotation of China’s contemporary art and arouse of cultural subjective consciousness after the cultural image of seducing colonization “connecting” to the world was experienced. China’s contemporary art influenced by this culture will neither “produce according to list” to cater adulatorily to unfathomable culture taste of international buyers nor “create with existing proposition” for international persons’ infrequent communication and cultural entertainment but involve in China’s indigenous cultural problems that are real and severe and devote to sound and good cultural effect in indigenous cultural market. Ren Jun, by way of his intuition and many-year thought, correspond positively to the cultural trends,” we should think our attitude to life basing on our living experience and visual field in our own country”.( Ren Jun accounted in one's own words)
What he is interest in is the psychological condition of the people currently; moreover, he hopes to find a visual prototype with accurate coverage power. However, those people who are familiar with Chinese contemporary art history know that this kind of visual works with strong capability of summary is common occurrence. Furthermore, due to multi-level and multi-dimensionality of the reality itself, on the basis of lack of real and profound experience and superorganic thinking, the simple list behind some intuitionistic and rough image searched with skimming over the surface can only present or summarize superficial image about the reality at injudicious and narrow level. The cultural effect generated from this kind of works remains very suspicious to us. While “micro narrated” visual image with high coverage power is indispensable actually, therefore, the critical problem is not only the bigger coverage power itself but superficialness and affectation the works covered. Actually, we are short of this kind of works that can stand deliberation and verification. Only practical, detailed, deep and subtle observation and research can hammer-harden high coverage image that won’t be rough, superficial, fantastic and feint. Moreover, this is also one of Chinese contemporary artists’ cultural responsibilities.
Walking the track of an overturned cart, Ren Jun wakes up to that it still has a long way to go to realize his impulsion on culture. It seems that many-year cultural view and perception is not enough, then he began to set about cautious visual ”sampling” and made extensive inspection and deep deliberation about those particular crowds he is researching. He welcomed people from all walks of life and in their different ages to his studio, so far, he has selected ten thousand pictures of people who are revealing their different psychological condition. The vivid and distinct pictures affect him sometimes. Sampling, inspection and research plus understanding of international view, native experience and traditional culture, he compared and sought the difference of Chinese people’s cultural psychology of the time and expressed gesture--“Yeah” as the eruptive point of deep psychological consciousness in his painting.
Since motion, gesture, expression and tone that expose internal psychological condition are very plentiful and subtle, all the expressions and gestures are inlet for “telling secret” for those persons who have sharp perception and insight, let alone psychological analysts who have blaze of lightning in their eyes. Therefore, before Ren Jun determined gesture--“Yeah” as the eruptive point of deep psychological consciousness, he was facing complex choices. He must extract and purify to find “prototype” with accurate coverage power, which needs him a hardworking effort. Retrospect to” a collection of illustrative plates” of Chinese contemporary art, facial expression was used to transfer people’s psychological condition by the artists, since it is more abundant and intuitionistic, but it also brought the simplicity and scarcity of “information resource”. Ren Jun, with his rich social experience and sharp insight as well as repeated comparison and research, found the gesture--“Yeah” popularized in recent years and the instant expression when people’s doing this gesture can expose the particular psychological desire and symptom of consciousness. Thereupon, he uses the gesture to express complex psychological characteristics in his works.
The gesture-“Yeah” is very popular in China now and becomes people’s daily behavior. As a symbolic gesture resulted from western culture, it originally meant “victory”. In addition, sarcastically, the frequency of “Yeah” used by Chinese people is far beyond Western people. In the process of spreading it in China, its connotation is extending continuously so that babies can use it frequently though they don’t know what it means. Furthermore, gesture are not only used by the youth and urbanite, but also spread all over the rural areas.  Its extensive spread in China is the result of popular culture being spread through media. Special social and historical background made China’s agriculture, industry and post industry society overlap, which resulted in a big economic income gap between city and village, among different regions or trades, more seriously, the gap is becoming bigger and bigger. Spread of popular culture has not been limited in rich strata of developed city but been spread in the whole country including a remote and backward place. Those groups who can only take idea consumption recognize highly the popular culture though they have not practical consumptive capability due to poor economic condition, they would do their utmost to pursue and simulate the life style that popular culture disseminated regardless of individual and social economic condition. They even inhibit or sacrifice the basic satisfaction to do overmuch hard work. Therefore, the prevalent popularity of gesture--“Yeah” is one of the characteristics that popular culture occupies the dominant cultural position. It hints similar cultural psychological condition among different strata. At present, its frequent use has potential something to do with daily increased desire and show a group consciousness. Hence the reason why Ren Jun chooses it is that he hopes to use it as critical motion to transfer some group’s psychological condition currently. He said, “I think ‘Yeah’ is an available and simple signal, but actually it is not simple as we think. Where is “Yeah” from? Why more and more Chinese people use “Yeah”? the reason is that ‘Yeah’ is used as a simplest signal to touch a kind of change of living condition about social culture, individual psychology, social strata, etc(Ren Jun accounted in one's own words).
Meanwhile, Ren Jun found that, as prototype, “Yeah” not only has its own profound meaning but has different meanings when it is used by different people. The richness of meanings brought him happy to sample, extract and file. Therefore, the gesture--”Yeah”, gathering particular expression of the internal consciousness exposed by people at different strata, became his main speaking mode. The mode is particularly painted in the contemporary paintings: it has coverage power to some extent and avoids simplicity and blank of some quotidian symbol image. It also keeps a suitable tension relation between coverage and difference and seeks for balance and common point between” micro narration” and “macro narration”. Hence we can understand the meaning of Ren Jun’s works coming out suddenly and overlook its prospect of progress further. Certainly, he wakes up to that the differences among many things are absolute and can’t be merged. Therefore, he needs to keep active apperception and adjust without stopping, otherwise, he can walk the same way of the former set pattern of painting----“some day I found that “Yeah” is repeating my own expression, I won’t feel it is meaningful to paint, then I won’t paint it again if it has no passion like today” (Ren Jun accounted in one's own words). As far as painting language is concerned, he abandons skill and gusto but “paint boldly” with big paintbrush and non painting tools, because this can keep a simplicity and directness and can catch and transfer his particular experience and perception that he can’t explain in words in instant “explosion”. The kind of language model gives his every works a special orientation and makes the whole series works have some richness and accurateness and keeps a big distance from machine-made signal style image. While grey or white color inject more objective attitude to his works and generates a kind of time distance compared with “vivid color and sweet flavor” of flowers blossoming now, which provide people a historical sight and a historical consciousness to review and ponder.
The people who are giving a pose of “Yeah” in Ren Jun’s painting are different for their identity (senior intellectual, merchant, politician, fashionable youth, and baby) as well as their psychological condition. For example, senior intellectuals cherish “machiavellian” and “ambitious” mood, while merchants are crazy at marketing their goods…….these works constitute the current “Yeah file”. What he paints most are farmers. On his part, farmers are the basic component factor in the frenetic society that is in the stage of “developing fair”, they are the important indispensable power in the process of development of metropolis. While those farmers who swarm into cities to work is different from before through yearning for happy, which embodies in the collision of consciousnesses of their returning to their home and seeking for new will and the impulsion and shock resulted from different identity and psychology. It is his cultural responsibility to research and well know about the complex and subtle psychology of people in nowadays.
Driven by historical consciousness, Ren Jun’s works that can catch and cover main psychological resort and mood of parts of crowd have some cultural research meaning and historical value. As to the accurate degree of this kind of “sampling” and “file”, it needs to be witnessed on site or in the history. In view of this, we are waiting and seeing what will happen.
