&temp=<b>Sun Shixian(Shorten for Sun as follows)</b>：To relatively public scuplture, the exhibit of this oil painting is your first individual painting exhibit, as you had mainly conducted some sculptures of city at before, so this batch of works which are your first series of art creations as well, “Yeah”, this topic which has been brewed for a long time and also has been suddenly thought out? Why did you choose this topic?   
<b>Ren Jun(Shorten for Ren as follows)</b>：This is my first exhibit, and is my first exhibit for many years before. There are many people who engage in art, they have an idea which is the sculpture affairs of city are not mentioned, and they think the sculpture of city is not the original creation, but as this is a fact, so I think which must be mentioned. 
“Yeah” is a social symbol, when I talk about that the symbol is found, I probably began to “Yeah” for one year ago, but I have not refined it as much as the mature today. And certainly the refinery is needed a course of procedure; when you discover that I paint the “Yeah”, the image appeared on the painting which is not thought out sitting in house, it is an very lively person including the flesh and blood in that class, so as you see as you must know one person who like this must survive on earth. And that are all the image in reality, which is not the person rated by me.        
I have found out many people in all class-level in society, and certainaly including the peasants who employed from the market of peasants for each day. They were brought to my workshop, and taken photos for them by my cameraman, accumulated over ten thousands of image element materials. During the course taking photos for them, my cameraman was shocked, “these people were very interesting” said my cameraman, and as he took photos for them as he closed his eyes that the faces of these people fulled of his mind. As I thought of to express by “Yeah”, and I initially thought that these “Yeah” were not related with these peasants, however as I regarded them as model put together, I found a thing, and then I combined this “Yeah” with much of these crowds and my thought was matured more and more, I thought that “Yeah” was a passing and simple symbol, but behind this simplification was not simple very much, how did this “Yeah” come out, why have Chinese people being been “Yeah”, and “Yeah” more and more? The status of “Yeah” is to use the simplest symbol to thouch social culture, individual phychological, social class and so on a kind of change for living status, so I wanted to transmit out a thicker attitude, as to the style of art, and also the skills of painting, which were combined with this “Yeah” whether that were advanced or not, which was an experiencing course of events, and that was i myself combined with this “Yeah” to color, and to the refinery of technique. But I discover now that this refinery is that the purification on pictures for my various image and skills to “Yeah” is tended to be matured more and more from this long term to prepare the individual exhibit for this time and after serveral ten oil paintings were drawn. This maturity, I think it is not suspended, then it is a beginning of maturity, and I seem to watch on the thinking which step on a legible road I myself hope. The road of this “Yeah” is not found by me within several months, I believe the experiences of city’s sculptures in past, my experiences in society, and various things experienced by me as I businessed in international community, which promoted me to find out this “Yeah” , to integrate these thoughts what I have wanted to express by “Yeah”. 
<b>Sun</b>: The process of your creation which was the process you were exploring, through the process of your creation that you found out the direction you wanted to express. I am very interested in that is, did you earlier find out some models to be taken photos as you created? Which people couold you look for as you found out these batch of models, including what kind of social class?  
<b>Ren</b>: I am particularly intersted in the social class, which is all thought by me that have the representative social class, the widest social class, and my pictures in which the most social class appeared are peasants, and the peasants go to town to labor. Many artists like to change dot and shape, because they think that the no figuration is no sense, but I am basically no much figuration, unless it is needed to figuration on pictues, why I don’t want to figuration, because I think that those artists who have already shaped. What kind of things are shape? It can not to say that a volume is no askewed which is not shaped. The faces of models are found by me that are the creative elements, the spirits, appearances of these people are all the natural deformation, why did you firmly shaped the things that were not needed to be shaped again being your very farfetched shaping. However, my color in pictures is all very reality, I am enough to which completely is the kind I need. Therefore, draw on the picture of“Yeah” which all collected process of the creative elements’ material, and also is to form the road of maturing process which wanted to express by the ultimate  “Yeah”. 
<b>Sun</b>: You draw on the picture that is brushed on with a very big brush brushing wall, and the color on the picture is simpler; you want to make people ignoring the shape and to much more foucs on the content of works, and this shape which is much more convenient to the presenting content? 
<b>Ren</b>: First of all, I myself hate the skill very much, and I do not like using skills to snatch others; second, I think that picture have a power and deepening mean, but my all technique present the particularly simplification and conciseness making people all most feeling no anything to this, and I particularly want to use this simplification and nothing, even though it is at present that I feel, it is particularly trouble in my mind that I paint it is too penetrated deeply, and drawing to much, why I can not simplify it to the very origin, that is to say brushing the color on the picture that I think enough, and then I need acctraction, make people randomly reading the thick and heavy thing, I can do the picture to being special strong, as you see in a moment as you will be attracted, but I do it in the opposite direction. On the other hand, I want to do the color of the whole picture to be graced, and is to make the color to be good-looking particularly, the content make the heart of people being too heavy, so I want ot make the color to be comfortable as you see, and my color proportion that make people very relaxation. For example, this picture put in a big house, every day as you do not randomly read it; it is a very comfortable feeling with the whole house, but as you sit down to slowly watch it, the original elements of painting, including color, and texture that I want to show off in picture. As you sit down to carefully watch those color, you can see many parts are not full filled out, and can see the scene of background in the back; furthermore, you can produce the transience and much more space feeling in capacity. You think that “Yeah” do not express as you appear in my picture, and purifying painting Characters can be watched. I dn not want to pressure others with the paintings at the beginning, I can paint the very strong color and very clear shape, “Yeah” with grin, “Yeah” ambiguous, “Yeah” lusting, painful “Yeah” and “Yeah” in struggle. These can be painted cleaness like that, but I do not step on the road, which is packaged in this simple “Yeah”. Sometime, you open your eyes to watch on the whole and not also produce the fancy, I thick it is not reality; as you entered that you will be feared, so I hope it is the efficiency like that.   
<b>Sun</b>: You are more ignore the style of painting, and then much more take attach importance to its the express of connotation. 
<b>Ren</b>: I try my best to neglect and origin, which is the most direct skills I think, and that is to say the no most artificial and the best suitable that is the best skill. The things which is the most suitable my paintings, I think that is the best skill, and I particularly hate the artificial skill liking some technology works. Good skills, which is not show off by me, but I require the visual on picture must have my unique aspect, so this kind of skill-painting not shown off on others' paintings, in any case I do not see it on others' paintings, now there are many similar artists, therefore I do not watch on some painting exhibits, and also do not often watch on others' works.  
<b>Sun</b>: I think you paint this “Yeah” related with your living experiences in home and abroad, the difference on the culture of home and abroad, and also the influence to Chinese from the foreign culture cause and bring up your “Yeah”. 
<b>Ren</b>: I engaged in the sculpture of city in past, from officials in government to people of all walks of life who were touched by me as I have lived in society, moreover I myself have almost changed to be one of people of all walks of life; but now I have backed, I know what I myself is, but the experiences from the people of all walks of life just created that I think over to social humanity, culture, politics, economy, and desire and so on many things existed in human society,I do not know whether this thought can be spoken by me with the deepening and accuracy, at least I make great efforts to think over. I just need to present that refine the simple symbol liking “Yeah”. In addition, one people who can not stand at a very closed and self-attitude stance to see the world, so you must travel all continents, how far do you step forward? I immigrated to Canada, and reside in Vancouver; I began to business to worldwide places at the beginning of 90s, such as europe as well as America. At that time, I participated in the local living, and invited to work and attended some social events and so on. I also saw some mature capitalism countries, and saw why their paintings was like that, as much as their paintings conducted anti-life, and the attitude to life was like that. I understood that we were like that, and we could not to put on an act being like that in Beijing, our attitude to life should to thinking based on our country’s experiences and vision, therefore under the context of “Yeah” in everywhere are just related with it, it is not simple that I drink two cups of liquor and somking cigarettes today, and begin to “Yeah”.   
<b>Sun</b>: You think if your workshop locatd in Xi’an, would you paint the paintings liking this kind of topic “Yeah”, why would your workshop be selected locating in Beijing?  
<b>Ren</b>: “Yeah” borne in Xi’an, Xi’an is a culture holy land, and “Yeah” was not borne in Beijing and borne in Xi’an, most of our documents also taken in Xi’an, and which was thought over by me in Xi’an. I know deep that I live in different places, my spiritual state is different. So in Xi’an, I do not really paint this “Yeah”, at least what I painted is different from this “Yeah”. I came to Beijing, why I live in the around of subway, I feel that the whole atmosphere in Beijing is different from the influence of my psychological. Just now I said, as I back to my family in Vancouver, the “Yeah” can not be painted by me, and I always paint rag dolls, I paint several branch of flowers on the rag dolls, I think which is particularly suited in there, as long as I paint “Yeah”, I can hate myself as well as I hate others. All are living fine, with good scenery like that, so you hurriedly enjoy it, in where the “Yeah” has not the deep feeling. I paint these things in Beijing, I feel it is particularly suited for in here, so I painted for two months; prepare the painting exhibit, I am almost away from home, anything that can not attract me, such as money, peris and luxury and dissipation can not attract me, I am precisely to paint “Yeah”. As a result, I discover that I paint the “Yeah” is happier than I paint anythings, this is my current state.   
<b>Sun</b>: This “Yeah” has already been a kind of symbol in your paintings; would you have been painting along with this symbol? 
<b>Ren</b>: The birth of “Yeah”, refined through the experiences for many years. From now on, at least I also will not to paint other things. The things expressed by “Yeah” at leat, which can not be expressed complete through the painting exhibit for this time. There are many “Yeah” in my mind that are not come out, this is a beginning of that “Yeah”, and is not absolutely the end of the “Yeah”. As to the “Yeah” how far which can walk, I believe it must walk the point which should be walked. It is only one question that is myself raised questions as well as my health raised questions. Beside this, no other any reasons; in addition, the oil paintings and the sculpture can together be displaied as I will prepare the painting exhibit in next time, you can find my oil paintings and the core of the sculpture is possibel related mutual, but the form is completely differed. I have no ways to make the sculpture to being “Yeah”, I think its language and the sculpture made by me is not inosculated. The sculpture made by me is precisely to like in ancient time, is the spirit that wake recalls, and is the thing that wake to think of past. In fact, the “Yeah” also has a kind of spirit behind of it, which is awaking. When we face to these two works, we carefully look at it, why we begin to like this. 
<b>Sun</b>: Works of many artists in modern art in China are all “symbolism”, and the symbolism has always not been thrown off. 
<b>Ren</b>: There is another point to be interpreted, I paint that is a kind of body language with symbolism, but my paintings are not made the symbolism. I saw many people who always painted their symbol’s style, and sometime it is bored with repeat. I have already worried about instead of them, as I repeat to do the sculpture of city again and again. I now do the sculpture of city that have not the orginal passions, I think that is a kind of work which must be done by me, I have to support my family, and I have to money-making; over hundreds people also follow me, these workers who must depend upon this to living. Fow someday I feel the symbol of “Yeah” which will being repeat myself, I feel to paint it that have not sense or interesting, and no this passion today, then I will not paint it with absolute. I sure I can do other things, maybe I am to make planes. But in today, I actually want to express in my mind that is to express “Yeah”, and I express it more, I feel that it hit the spot more. The painting exhibit for this time, it is only a beginning, and also there many paintings that regard the “Yeah” as topic will be painted.      
<b>Sun</b>: This “Yeah” is to present the people who live in different social class, it is a kind of external culture after which come to China that produce the influences to Chinese people. Perhaps after several years, several decades passed, it will be the new impacts and influences also, then “Yeah” will be subject to the current social state. <b>Ren</b>: As long as it hereafter has the status, this “Yeah” must bring the status at that time coming out. Supposing that mankind all change magnates in someday, and as all Chinese people operate helicopters, that “Yeah” must different with the current “Yeah”. I think as long as people have the status, “Yeah” must has the status, because under the “Yeah” that represents the society I want to express. It is only say that whether I can do some new things on pictures and in creation, which is a key point. 
<b>Sun</b>: The peasants who go to town for labor are rather more in the objects of your paintings, why do you focus on this class of the peasants like that? 
<b>Ren</b>: The politics and economy of China are burdened on the shoulders of peasants, and burdened by peasants with their modesty, then though ignorant, and also the simple thought. The ignorant, simple thought and honesty are a kind of resources, which can be transferred to be economy. The big cities liking Beijing and Shanghai are watched on a map that is a dot, and then the wide places are all villages. Why we say that peasants go to town that is to change the climate in cities, the real Chinese culture is created by agriculture. This is not separated with peasants, my paintint exhibit for this time just consist of the events of peasants. After you see, you will feel that is great. I brought twelves peasants from Shaan’xi, and will stew the mutton with the caldron put up in the exhibition hall of the painting exhibit at that moment, and also has the swollen small loaf of steamed bread. As you come to here you can help yourself to eat with the biggest bowl. The cotton-padded jackets of peasants are all black jacket clothes, super grandmas for sixty years old foucs on the policy in rural area, with wrap around waist that what the ever society is that what it is. Those peasants must have not been to Beijing with absolute. I saw many people who convene beautiful girls, and the girls wear on cheongsam standing in certain places. I can not engage in that kind of things, which is not related with me, those peasants who only wear on our clothes, and have a meal with the mutton swollen, I feel very satisfied with it. And happiness fulled of our faces. I think we have a meal with abalone that can not to say happiness, but the peasants have a meal with mutton swollen and they feel that is very happiness. They feel that is a happiness in their life, the twelves peasants will be wore the black cotton-padded jackets to be taken some photos, and are very happiness for generation to generation. I take care for these peasants, and I also foucs on the people who trouble with peasants. When the nature created life on earth, how long did they spend on to design? One hundred and twenty million years. However, the civilization history of human being is only several thousand years. One life has been designed for one hundred and twenty million years, the minim elements making the universe exploded have been brought in our body. When the unverse has spent on the one hundred and twenty million years to design a system, it must think of miscellaneous and much more things, therefore mankind can not struggle out of the natural power, so I have been merely focusing on the value of human being, then this “Yeah” is to be deepened into these views.  China, is a country of peasants, most of people in China are peasants, so the power of peasants is too tremendous. In my works, the proportion drawing peasants is almost equal to the peasants who occupy the proportion of overall population in Chinal, for example I have ten pieces of paintings, as long as the peasants occupy 70% of the proportion of overall population throught the country. Then, I must have seven pieces of paintings that present the peasants, and another three pieces that present the 30% of another, I must do like this. This is not thought out by me, however there is a kind of feeling forcing me to do like this, when I look at those people, and I took the appearance feeling of those people. When I took the status of those people, I think this is too irritation. 
Those people who never know you, those faces are distorted by society that is so low-down, abstract feeling, that kind of intramuscular texture, that kind of body languages on various faces, which is so deep. That is fostered by society, and is not thought out by artist sitting in home. I am felt by the faces of those people.  
<b>Sun</b>: Would you remember that your first photos was painted the “Yeah”, which one did you select? And why did you select it? 
<b>Ren</b>: This is that has a course, which can more clear to interpret how I began to the “Yeah”. At the beginning, I drew a women who went to town, and the women who squinted her eyes, and wore on the clothes with fur collar. As soon as I saw her face who might be a peasant, but she was very happines from her squinting eyes, I named this painting Good Living. After good living lived with them, I felt we are in the photos of the “Yeah”, I also continue to think. At the begining, I thought of making them better a bit, but I thought of very simple, their livings should better a bit, therefore they are “Yeah”. After I “Yeah” for sevral times, I found that many faces as they put in together, they were not merely to “Yeah” because our today’s living changed better. The statuses were much more when we began to “Yeah”, which was found out by me from those photos. Where it started, it was started from the “Yeah” in Good Living. My originally means was to make those peasants who were all to “Yeah”, and allwere happy a bit with “Yeah”. In the end, I found when they were to “Yeah”, it was not simple like that, it was not mere the living changed better, they were happy. Including us who lived in city, as they were to “Yeah” that is inexplicable, in the end I found the”Yeah” being one my thing to read the spirit, coming from the course like this. 
<b>Sun</b>: Except for peasants, and also what kind of people have being painted by you? 
<b>Ren</b>:  I will prepare to the paintings shown off on the exhibit for this time, the paintings in which include high-level intellecutual persons, bosses, who are the elite persons in society. And alos including the fashion, it is that the little girls after 90s whose status treat to living, they are different from our past, to deal with the problems between man and women that are much different. How they are to “Yeah” under this kind of status, there’s not enough time to create many paintings for this time, so do not warry. I have other sveral paintings that are the babies eat their fingers, they are not to eat one of fingers, then they put in all fingers of both hands mouth to eat. One of bayies, who is probably over one month, sleep on both ears in swaddling clothes, the gesture of his hands also like “Yeah”. As I discovered these photos, it was regarded as the material. 
<b>Sun</b>: But, I feel the baby painted by you, she is not initiative “Yeah”, however she just has a gesture as same as the “Yeah”.  
<b>Ren</b>: Right, it is seem to given a feeling to you, how to like this pose as I was borne, I think carefully over it is seem to terror. Like a funny that as you were borne, you wore on a raincoat, down to this world with take a walking stick, like that kind of pose. One people who was not related with his expression beside him was looking at him, and had a kind of jealous, detest of mankind. Generally speaking with one word, a great variety of statuses expressed in human being society, I want to take out the “Yeah” to interpret, I think it can proliferation limitless.   
<b>Sun</b>: The site that the peasants of Shaan’xi add the mutton swollen loaf whether it has a bit of action feeling or not? 
<b>Ren</b>: From the sense of theory to say, it must have a bit. At least when I thought of this thing, I did not think of this aspect, it is very nature. The name “come” on the pillar of the exhibition hall, I have not thought about the better others. The “come” is very interesting, you come to, I come to, and the spirit comes out, the feeling come out, have no “le” and use “li”. The Shaan’xinese greets somebody that is “come”! It is very honest with passions.  
